---
toc: true
layout: post
description: CSUSM Reflection
comments: true
badges: true
categories: [KeyTakeaways]
title: CSUSM Refleciton
---
# Notes

## The People
- John: graduated from here
- Delinquent in hs
- Ashley: graduated form CSUSM with degree in applied physics
- Going for PhD after many failures

## San Marcos
- Many stairs
- CS
- Cyber Security
- Computer Engineering
- Math + Algorithm
- Lots of STEM related pathways
- Tons of clubs that are STEM based
- Virtual reality labs
- AI learning

## Internship
- Networking, getting to know people, clubs, emails, etc.
- Summer programs, scholarships and possibly get a job?!?!

## Paying for College
- Scholarship: on us to get them
- Grant: Economic status, dependant on grades too
- Loans: want to avoid, avoid unsubsidized loans

## Life after CSUSM
- Working for public vs private (mostly private or military)
- Can attend a graduate program, getting a PhD and doing research should be fully covered or paid

# Key Takeaways
- CS is used in everything (Code Code Code)
- Network yourself, try to get internships/scholarships
- Avoid loans, but also if you need to take a loan make sure you try to avoid unsubsidized loans
- Getting a graduates program or doing research for a college can get you pay or be fully covered.

# Reflection
Listening to John and Ashley has really made me reflect on my current state as a student. My current mental state has been really low and I've noticed my grades have started to reflect that, but it was really reassuring to hear Ashley shared a similar experience and is still able to pursue a PhD in science. I know I'm not exactly a star student in the class as a CS student, but I at least I try my best to understand and learn from my peers. Now that I'm a Junior, this summer ia big opportunity for me to seek out an internship or program that will help me gain some experience for what I will be learning and applying in college. Applying some of the fundamentals I've learnt from this class will be helpful to fully be able to learn to the full extent at some of these internships and activities I will do at places like CSUSM, or similar programs that CSUSM offers. My sister goes to this school, and she has already informed me about some of these programs, and it has recently dawned on me just how crucial some of these things that are talked about are to college and getting a job in the future. I'm still unsure of where I'll end up in the future, but I hope that I will be able use what I've learned in CS for the better.